<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE resume PUBLIC "-//ARKADIANRIVER//DTD DITA Resume//EN" "resume.dtd">
<resume id="resume-gary-faircloth">
    <name>Gary Faircloth</name>
    <header>
        <description audience="gen">Seeking general part-time work</description>
        <description jobrole="dev" audience="notgen">Content Software Development, DevOps, and Technical Writing</description>
        <description jobrole="ia"  audience="notgen">Information Architecture, Technical Writing, and Content DevOps Software Development</description>
        <description jobrole="wrt" audience="notgen">Technical Writing and Content Software Development</description>
        <contact>
            <phone><countrycode>1</countrycode><number>4086466157</number></phone>
            <email>arkadianriver@gmail.com</email>
            <linkedin>garyfaircloth</linkedin>
            <website>arkadianriver.com/works</website>
        </contact>
    </header>
    <resumebody>
        <summary>
            <p audience="gen">I enjoyed a long career in the software industry developing applications and providing technical documentation.
                The most fulfilling part of the work was building relationships and helping people succeed.
                Now, in part-time retirement, I want to continue helping people however I can.</p>
            <p audience="notgen">Coordinating with users, subject matter experts, designers, writers, and translators, I have
                carried various UIs and publications from design to release. Throughout the development
                process, many look to me for coaching and training on new technologies.
                I inspire a fun and energetic atmosphere in which to create.</p>
            <specialties>
                <specialty jobrole="dev">Software development for documentation production and quality assurance</specialty>
                <specialty jobrole="wrt">Technical writing of user and development documentation</specialty>
                <specialty audience="gen">Office administration</specialty>
                <specialty audience="gen">Electronic assembly</specialty>
                <specialty audience="gen">Food service and delivery</specialty>
                <specialty jobrole="ia" audience="notgen">Support and DevOps for documentation authoring and production tools</specialty>
                <specialty jobrole="wrt" audience="notgen">UI design methodologies</specialty>
                <specialty jobrole="ia" audience="notgen">Internal professional vitality training</specialty>
                <specialty jobrole="ia" audience="notgen">Translation coordination</specialty>
            </specialties>
            <technologies>
                <technology audience="gen" jobrole="gen">
                    <techcategorylist>A myriad of software development and technical writing tools, GitHub, Slack,
                        Microsoft Office (including Project), Soldering, Flow-soldering</techcategorylist>
                </technology>
                <technology audience="notgen" jobrole="ia dev">
                    <techcategory>Content DevOps (Docs-as-Code CI/CD)</techcategory>
                    <techcategorylist>DITA-OT, Metalsmith, Jekyll, Hugo, Sphinx, Gatsby, Pandoc, Paged.js, Jenkins,
                        TravisCI, GitHub workflows, Docker, Azure DevOps</techcategorylist>
                </technology>
                <technology audience="notgen" jobrole="dev">
                    <techcategory>Software development</techcategory>
                    <techcategorylist>React, JavaScript, Python, Ruby, SQL, PHP, CakePHP MVC, HTML, CSS, XSLT,
                        XSL-FO, Perl, Git, bash, PowerShell</techcategorylist>
                </technology>
                <technology audience="notgen" jobrole="wrt">
                    <techcategory>Technical writing and training</techcategory>
                    <techcategorylist>DITA, Markdown, AsciiDoc, reStructuredText, OpenAPIv3 (Swagger), Oxygen
                        XML Author, Draw.io, Kdenlive, GiMP, OBS Studio, Camtasia, Inkscape</techcategorylist>
                </technology>
            </technologies>
        </summary>
        <experience>
            <positions>
                <position>
                    <organization>PACCAR</organization>
                    <location>Bellevue, WA</location>
                    <datefrom>2023-09</datefrom>
                    <dateto>2025-03</dateto>
                    <jobtitle>Content DevOps, DITA-OT, and XSLT Developer</jobtitle>
                    <accomplishments>
                        <accomplishment audience="gen">Part of a small team that developed and maintained certification documentation for the California ARB and the EPA.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment audience="notgen" jobrole="dev">Toward improving team code accuracy, enacted PR-review feature development, tested to acceptance criteria, and practiced agile sprint project management.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment audience="notgen" jobrole="dev">Enhanced XSLT 3.0 to XSL-FO PDF transforms to support formatting needs, such as out-of-range cell highlighting and conditional table row breaks.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment audience="notgen" jobrole="dev">Refactored the content mono-repo into logical parts for more manageable development, particularly to keep up with the latest versions of DITA-OT.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment audience="notgen" jobrole="dev">Set up Azure DevOps pipelines for XSLT, DITA-OT, and schematron builds, with log scanning to notify users of warnings.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment audience="notgen" otherprops="future" jobrole="dev">Developed a custom Oxygen framework, to maintain ease of authoring of the split repository.</accomplishment>
                    </accomplishments>
                </position>
                <position deliveryTarget="pdf" audience="notgen">
                    <organization>IBM</organization>
                    <location>Seattle, WA</location>
                    <datefrom>2014-11</datefrom>
                    <dateto>2023-05</dateto>
                    <jobtitle>Content DevOps, Support, and Web Developer</jobtitle>
                    <accomplishments>
                        <accomplishment id="ibm01" jobrole="dev">Achieved top search ranking for Cloud Pak for Data as a Service documentation by writing and deploying the NodeJS backend sitemap.xml generation utility.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment id="ibm02" jobrole="dev">Developed the design layout, automated build process, and localization workflow for the service documentation landing pages for IBM Cloud Pak for Data, by using IBM Carbon CSS, DITA XSLT overrides, Hugo, Ruby, and IBM Globalization Pipeline CLI tools. Documented and held training on the process.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment id="ibm03" jobrole="dev ia">Wrote a Python application to crawl, download, and divide a 5000 page documentation web site, including referenced graphics, to build into manageable PDF sizes.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment id="ibm04" jobrole="dev wrt">Developed, documented, and held training on a Jekyll markdown authoring environment to provide authors with conditional-coding for topic reuse, using three output styles across six products, some in continuous delivery.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment id="ibm05" jobrole="dev ia">Devised a multi-sourced approach for authors of Jekyll markdown and DITA to publish concurrently.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment id="ibm06" jobrole="dev wrt">Led a small team who continued to design, develop, document, and maintain the CakePHP build, test, translation, and delivery system that automated the publication production workflow across sites.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment id="ibm07" jobrole="dev ia">For a library of content to be maintained by Ruby developers, migrated the content to DITA-OT markdown and wrote a Ruby script to compile the source and trigger the automated building and publishing.</accomplishment>
                    </accomplishments>
                </position>
                <position audience="notgen" deliveryTarget="html">
                    <organization>IBM</organization>
                    <location>Seattle, WA</location>
                    <datefrom>2020-01</datefrom>
                    <dateto>2023-05</dateto>
                    <jobtitle>Content DevOps and Support Lead</jobtitle>
                    <accomplishments>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="dev">Influenced Data and AI Content Tools strategy toward corporate and industry standards, while leading a small development team to support content designers in the organization.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="dev">Developed, documented, and held training on the Metalsmith and LiquidJS markdown authoring environment for Cloud Pak for Data content, to migrate from Jekyll for a new translation workflow.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment conref="#ibm01" jobrole="dev"/>
                        <accomplishment conref="#ibm02" jobrole="dev"/>
                        <accomplishment conref="#ibm03" jobrole="dev ia"/>
                    </accomplishments>
                </position>
                <position deliveryTarget="html" audience="notgen">
                    <organization>IBM</organization>
                    <location>Seattle, WA</location>
                    <datefrom>2014-11</datefrom>
                    <dateto>2019-12</dateto>
                    <jobtitle>Application Development Lead and Content DevOps Developer</jobtitle>
                    <accomplishments>
                        <accomplishment conref="#ibm04" jobrole="dev wrt"/>
                        <accomplishment conref="#ibm05" jobrole="dev ia"/>
                        <accomplishment conref="#ibm06" jobrole="dev wrt"/>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="dev">Integrated SOAP communication with the corporate translation planning application and REST communication between our application's server nodes.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="dev">Mentored a frontend development intern as she added translation planning forms to our application.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="dev wrt ia">Created a common code base, scripts, workflow, and documentation to automate the installation of the application and backend servers on our separate application server nodes.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment conref="#ibm07" jobrole="dev ia"/>
                    </accomplishments>
                </position>
                <position audience="notgen">
                    <organization>IBM</organization>
                    <location>Seattle, WA</location>
                    <datefrom>2006-08</datefrom>
                    <dateto>2014-10</dateto>
                    <jobtitle>Technical Writer and Web Developer</jobtitle>
                    <accomplishments>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="wrt dev">Collaborated with support and engineering to improve the installation and administration documentation, while also designing and developing the product documentation's first automated build application.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="ia">Applied a DITA metadata architecture to installation and administration topics to produce custom PDF guides based on user selections of role, desired OS, and configuration options.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="ia">Architected the DITA reuse strategy for topics to be shared among the IBM Classic group of products.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="ia">Partnered with other information architects to design and implement a DITA architecture componentized by feature capability and organized hierarchically by user task.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="wrt">Co-authored our lab's monthly newsletter about our product and documentation competitors.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="dev">Recognized for creating the source control release strategy and web application for both the English and translated content build, review, test, and publish workflow.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="dev">Developed the translation workflow components of an inspired team member's vision for a more user customizable web application for the documentation production workflow. He architected it with CakePHP, MySQL, and Jenkins, and he drove adoption across at least three sites.</accomplishment>
                    </accomplishments>
                </position>
                <position audience="notgen">
                    <organization>IBM</organization>
                    <location>San Jose, CA</location>
                    <datefrom>1994-08</datefrom>
                    <dateto>2006-07</dateto>
                    <jobtitle>Technical Writer</jobtitle>
                    <accomplishments>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="dev">An active member of the IBM Software Group installation workgroup, I aided the design of the product installation wizard and drove the out-of-the-box download and readme experience, to include conducting many hours of low-fi user testing.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="wrt">Drew upon user and competitor feedback to improve contextual help, implement tooltips, and using ViewletBuilder create a product Flash tutorial on migrating from Oracle to DB2.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="dev">As a site expert in Eclipse Help and user-assistance configuration and implementation, I was lead architect of the Eclipse UA DITA specialization and created two wizards to aid writers with conversions to Eclipse Help.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="dev">As site DITA advocate, I migrated the product documentation to DITA and assisted two other product doc teams in their migration from both IBMIDDOC SGML and IBM BookMaster.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="wrt">Authored a two-page full-color brochure for a product marketing campaign at a third of the cost by using an in-house SGML Doctype.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="wrt dev">Used Perl to create the DITA User Guide and Message Reference from the product Java message catalog.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="wrt">Through two releases, maintained the Net.Data User Guide and Reference, authored in IBMIDDOC SGML.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="dev">Increased skills in DB2 SQL, XML, and PHP-style web application authoring.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="dev ia">Proposed and created a data source configuration wizard, written in C and TaskGuide SGML, using APIs for Windows, DB2, Oracle, Sybase, and SQL Server, over SNA APPC or TCP/IP connections, with some additional WinHelp reference content.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="dev">Held training sessions on TCP/IP and introductory Linux usage.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="wrt dev ia">Improved the OS/2 online help design independent of writing the content by using Perl to separate the two.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="dev">Administered an AIX shared-development server on which I also developed and hosted a perl CGI web app used for CMVC defect tracking for the team.</accomplishment>
                        <accomplishment jobrole="wrt dev">Learned object-oriented modeling, AIX, and Perl, while maintaining the installation guide in BookMaster.</accomplishment>
                    </accomplishments>
                </position>
                <position audience="gen">
                    <organization>IBM</organization>
                    <location>San Jose, CA, and Seattle, WA</location>
                    <datefrom>1994-08</datefrom>
                    <dateto>2023-05</dateto>
                    <jobtitle>Technical Writer and Software Developer</jobtitle>
                    <accomplishments>
                        <accomplishment>Publishing documentation for database software applications and providing support and tools for technical writers and content designers.</accomplishment>
                    </accomplishments>
                </position>
                <position audience="gen">
                    <organization>University of Washington Parking Division</organization>
                    <location>Seattle, WA</location>
                    <datefrom>1992-08</datefrom>
                    <dateto>1994-07</dateto>
                    <jobtitle>Student Assistant</jobtitle>
                    <accomplishments>
                        <accomplishment>Office administration and reception.</accomplishment>
                    </accomplishments>
                </position>
                <position audience="gen">
                    <organization>George Rice &amp; Sons</organization>
                    <location>Seattle, WA</location>
                    <datefrom>1992-08</datefrom>
                    <dateto>1994-07</dateto>
                    <jobtitle>Administrative Assistant</jobtitle>
                    <accomplishments>
                        <accomplishment>Office administration and reception.</accomplishment>
                    </accomplishments>
                </position>
                <position audience="gen">
                    <organization>Schippers &amp; Crew</organization>
                    <location>Seattle, WA</location>
                    <datefrom>1991-12</datefrom>
                    <dateto>1992-08</dateto>
                    <jobtitle>Electronics Assembler</jobtitle>
                    <accomplishments>
                        <accomplishment>Piece-rate board assembly, to include wire stripping, soldering, and flow-soldering.</accomplishment>
                    </accomplishments>
                </position>
                <position audience="gen">
                    <organization>Wendy's</organization>
                    <location>Bossier City, LA, Lawton, OK, and Seattle, WA</location>
                    <datefrom>1982-06</datefrom>
                    <dateto>1991-12</dateto>
                    <jobtitle>Crewmember</jobtitle>
                    <accomplishments>
                        <accomplishment>Food service: cash register, food prep, grill, cleaning.</accomplishment>
                    </accomplishments>
                </position>
                <position audience="gen">
                    <organization>Convergent Technologies</organization>
                    <location>San Jose, CA</location>
                    <datefrom>1988-11</datefrom>
                    <dateto>1989-08</dateto>
                    <jobtitle>Recruiting assistant</jobtitle>
                    <accomplishments>
                        <accomplishment>Office administration, resume filtering, and candidate hosting.</accomplishment>
                    </accomplishments>
                </position>
                <position audience="gen">
                    <organization>US Army</organization>
                    <location>Active in Fort Sill, OK, and Reserves in CA and WA</location>
                    <datefrom>1985-10</datefrom>
                    <dateto>1993-10</dateto>
                    <jobtitle>Chaplain Assistant</jobtitle>
                    <accomplishments>
                        <accomplishment>Office administration, chapel upkeep, and pre-counseling screening.</accomplishment>
                    </accomplishments>
                </position>
                <position audience="gen">
                    <organization>Johnny's Pizza</organization>
                    <location>Bossier City, LA</location>
                    <datefrom>1984-09</datefrom>
                    <dateto>1985-07</dateto>
                    <jobtitle>Crewmember</jobtitle>
                    <accomplishments>
                        <accomplishment>Food service: cash register, food prep, grill, cleaning.</accomplishment>
                    </accomplishments>
                </position>
                <position audience="gen">
                    <organization>Hancock Fabrics</organization>
                    <location>Bossier City, LA</location>
                    <datefrom>1983-06</datefrom>
                    <dateto>1983-09</dateto>
                    <jobtitle>Stockboy</jobtitle>
                    <accomplishments>
                        <accomplishment>Organizing reams, cleaning, assisting customers measure fabrics</accomplishment>
                    </accomplishments>
                </position>
                <position audience="gen">
                    <organization>Baskin-Robbins</organization>
                    <location>Bossier City, LA</location>
                    <datefrom>1982-06</datefrom>
                    <dateto>1982-09</dateto>
                    <jobtitle>Crewmember</jobtitle>
                    <accomplishments>
                        <accomplishment>Food service: cash register, food prep, cleaning.</accomplishment>
                    </accomplishments>
                </position>
            </positions>
        </experience>
        <education>
            <program>
                <school>University of Washington</school>
                <degree>Bachelor of Science (BS)</degree>
                <field>Technical Communication, Department of Human-Centered Design and Engineering</field>
                <minor>Computer Science specialization</minor>
                <datefrom>1989-09</datefrom>
                <dateto>1994-12</dateto>
            </program>
        </education>
        <awards audience="notgen">
            <award>
                <title>Outstanding Technical Achievement</title>
                <issuedby>IBM</issuedby>
                <dateissued>2021-10</dateissued>
                <achievement>Team award for implementing the AI-driven video transcription service provided in the Cloud Pak for Data as a Service documentation application, as described in the paper published in the CASCON Proceedings of the ACM, Nov, 2021.</achievement>
            </award>
            <award>
                <title>Outstanding Technical Achievement</title>
                <issuedby>IBM</issuedby>
                <dateissued>1994-09</dateissued>
                <achievement>For replacing many complex topics with a data source configuration wizard, which was very well received by customers, because it gracefully overcame points of potential failure in various types of network communications and federated database connectivity.</achievement>
            </award>
        </awards>
    </resumebody>
</resume>
